It's been a while since my last post. I feel a bit guilty, but the delay has been for good reason. I got a job as a web developer! My first day was two months ago, back in October. And this goes along with having secured a position as a Teaching Assistant at a remote bootcamp back in September. It's kind of funny how it works - I went from searching for a tech job, to having two within a month. That, along with my wife being 8 months pregnant with our second kid, has made the last couple of months extremely busy and stressful.
<br/><br/>
Enough about that, though. I'm sure anybody reading this is curious how I landed the job, having no work experience and being self-taught. The answer?
<br/><br/>
As Professor McGonagall said, "Sheer Dumb Luck".
<br/><br/>
I wish I could tell other new devs currently looking for their first position that I landed 10 interviews from applications and passed one. Or that I was getting non-stop inquiries regarding my applications. I'm a major introvert, except when 1 on 1 or in a very small group. I'm not great at networking and it makes me as uncomfortable as anything can. I would rather put in applications and get responses back.
<br/><br/>
Instead, an employee at the company I work at now reached out to me on LinkedIn. They stumbled upon my profile, and took the time to read this blog. They mentioned that it seemed like I knew what I was talking about, and if I was interested, that they could pass me along to their manager.
<br/><br/>
Again. Sheer. Dumb. Luck. But there are two different sayings I could say at this point:
<br/><br/>

1. "I'd rather be lucky than good", a famous saying in many competitive endeavors. Or...
2. "Luck is where hard work meets opportunity." And despite me continually pressing about sheer, dumb luck, this is instead where I'd like to place my efforts.
   <br/><br/>
   What you see in the above picture is the result of myself keeping a record of every application I submitted between May and September. 144 applications. Of those, I didn't hear anything back from 106 of them. That's 75% of applications that went into the void. So for every 4 applications I'd send in, I could realistically expect to hear anything back from just 1 of them. I had to do something different. I knew I had the coding skills, but myself knowing it just wasn't enough.
   <br/><br/>
   The big question was, what could I do differently? I had done 3 or 4 #100DaysOfCode challenges on Twitter, at first for accountability but becoming more for notoriety towards the end. Aside from posting those short, daily snippets though, I wasn't doing much else. So I decided that I had to put myself out there. I actively tweaked my LinkedIn here and there to be more attractive. I made this blog, both to deploy something somewhat large with PHP and as a way to show off my knowledge. Whenever I made a blog post, I was sure to scream it to the world to get as many eyes as possible on this site. "Oh hey, you came to my blog to read this post? While you're here, take a look at these functioning projects I've made. I'll place the link conveniently next to the blogs link." I increased the amount I posted on Twitter. I redid my resume to **try** and beat the machines. I did whatever I could to put myself and my capabilities out there...once I saw traditional applications weren't working.
   <br/><br/>
   It was around this time that I started getting a bit more attention. I accepted a small, part-time role as a full-stack bootcamp TA. My line of thinking was that any kind of experience was good experience, even if it wasn't directly coding.
   <br/><br/>
   To other career changers out there, such as myself: do this. We don't have the 4-year CS degree to put on our resumes. We may not have great connections within a company. Even if it makes us uncomfortable, we have to try and be louder. We have to try and get attention through unconventional means. And another piece of advice I'd give is to not marry your initial "tech stack". My introductory tech stack was MERN. I learned PHP (and Wordpress, to a much lesser extent) when I realized that companies around me weren't really hiring for MERN. I learned MySQL because I saw many more companies utilizing SQL databases than NoSQL. I started down the path of learning Java, again because I noticed that companies were hiring for it in my area, but I didn't get very far. And all of this will make a career changer more desirable.
   <br/><br/>
   How was the interview process like, for those curious? It started with a small conversation, followed by a take-home technical assessment, followed by a longer, more formal interview, followed by a final take-home project. It was an enjoyable, nerve-wrecking process. It was how interviews for developer positions should be, as every assessment I took was related to the job's day-to-day duties. Again, though, pure luck. Some jobs do make you go through an algorithm challenge or a whiteboard interview. Those situations aren't ideal, but you do learn something and gain experience. Heavens knows I probably wouldn't have passed it myself. So, again, lucky.
   <br/><br/>
   I'm having fun at my job(s) now. It's still surreal to think that I actually broke through. I'm learning so much more every day working with much more experienced developers than any Udemy course could tech me. I'd love to post more technical content soon. With my schedule the way it is, and a new baby coming in a couple of weeks, that'll be difficult. But I am starting to attempt to learn about NextJS and Typescript in my free time, and I'd love to blog about some tidbits here and there. Thanks for reading!
